Add EIP-5982: Role-based Access Control (#5982)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5982.md

---
eip: 5982
title: Role-based Access Control Interface

> description: Interface for Access Control

Author: Updated

author: Zainan Victor Zhou (@xinbenlv)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5982-role-based-access-control/11759
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-11-15
requires: 165, 5750
---

## Abstract

> An interface standardizing role-based access control.

Author: Updated

## Motivation

There are multiple ways to establish access control for actions requiring different privileges and powers. This EIP standardizes such
interface so smart contracts, accounts and DAOs could establish access control based on given interface.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

> 

Author: Good point

Interfaces of reference is described as followed:

> 

Author: Updated

---
eip: 5982
title: Role-based Access Control
description: An interface for role-based access control for smart contracts.
author: Zainan Victor Zhou (@xinbenlv)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5982-role-based-access-control/11759
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-11-15
requires: 165, 5750
---

## Abstract

> This EIP defines an interface for role-based access control for smart contracts. Roles are defined as `byte32`. The interface specifies how to read, grant, create and destroy roles. It specifies the sense of role power in the format of its ability to call a given method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP defines an interface for role-based access control for smart contracts. Roles are the `keccak256` hash of the human-readable role name (in SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE). The interface specifies how to read, grant, create and destroy roles.
```
I don't understand the last sentence. Mind explaining it?

Author: > Roles are the `keccak256` hash of the human-readable role name (in SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE).

While it's recommend to use `keccak256` upon a human readable string, this EIP _doesn't intend to mandate_ the choice of hash function. So I would probably not include this suggested update.

>> It specifies the sense of role power in the format of its ability to call a given method
>  I don't understand the last sentence. Mind explaining it?

I will revise that last sentence, it means this EIP not only define a way to get and set roles, but also defines a way to get the "power" of a role. The way to check if a role has certain power is by calling `canExecute` function and pass in a `bytes4` method selector in its second parameter

```
function canExecute(bytes32 executor, bytes4 method, bytes32 calldata payload, bytes calldata _data) view external returns(bool);
```
